pages/index.mdx, before:

# Opaque

Secure password based client-server authentication without the server ever obtaining knowledge of the password.

A JavaScript implementation of the [OPAQUE protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/) based on [opaque-ke](https://github.com/facebook/opaque-ke).

## Benefits

- Never accidentally log passwords
- Security against pre-computation attacks upon server compromise
- Foundation for encrypted backups and end-to-end encryption apps

**WARNING**: This is a work in progress and not ready for production use.

## Interactive Demo

{/* get custom components into documentation, important: new-line after import */}
import { InteractiveForm } from "../components/InteractiveForm";

<InteractiveForm />

## Who is using Opaque?

- [Serenity](https://github.com/serenity-kit/serenity) as authentication mechanism for the account

## Who is using the OPAQUE protocol?

- [WhatsApp](https://iacr.org/submit/files/slides/2023/rwc/rwc2023/IT_2/slides.pdf) for their end-to-end encrypted backups

## Security

- [Security Analysis of OPAQUE](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/163.pdf)
- [Security Audit of opaque-ke](https://research.nccgroup.com/2021/12/13/public-report-whatsapp-opaque-ke-cryptographic-implementation-review/)

## Benefits compared to password hashing

- The server never learns the password and therefor never can log it (accidentally)

## Tradeoffs compared to password hashing

- Requires JavaScript to run on the client
- One extra roundtrip for registration and login

## Benefits compared to Passkeys

- No need for users to rely on an external authority for key storage. Usually Apple, Google or Microsoft.
- No device/browser/OS lock-in. On Linux for example there is no Passkey support.
- No support for a stable `export_key` on the client. This makes Passkeys unsuitable for encrypted backups or as a foundation for end-to-end encryption apps. Might be possible in the future with the [PRF Extension](https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/#prf-extension)

## Tradeoffs compared to Passkeys

- You still need to remember and store a password. Passwordless authentication is preferable.
- Passkeys have even stronger security guarantees against server compromise since only a public key is stored.

Note: You can also deploy Passkeys and have Opaque as a fallback for users without Passkeys. Best of both worlds.

## Relevant building blocks and inspirations

- 2018: The [OPAQUE](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/163.pdf) paper was published.
- 2018-2023 A group of IETF members worked on the [OPAQUE protocol RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/).
- 2020: Work on [opaque-ke](https://github.com/facebook/opaque-ke) started.
- 2020: Work on [opaque-wasm](https://github.com/marucjmar/opaque-wasm) started. It allowed us to give explore the protocol in a beta and inspired us to build a full library.

Commit message:

add comparison to opaque-wasm

pages/index.mdx, after:

# Opaque

Secure password based client-server authentication without the server ever obtaining knowledge of the password.

A JavaScript implementation of the [OPAQUE protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/) based on [opaque-ke](https://github.com/facebook/opaque-ke).

## Benefits

- Never accidentally log passwords
- Security against pre-computation attacks upon server compromise
- Foundation for encrypted backups and end-to-end encryption apps

**WARNING**: This is a work in progress and not ready for production use.

## Interactive Demo

{/* get custom components into documentation, important: new-line after import */}
import { InteractiveForm } from "../components/InteractiveForm";

<InteractiveForm />

## Who is using Opaque?

- [Serenity](https://github.com/serenity-kit/serenity) as authentication mechanism for the account

## Who is using the OPAQUE protocol?

- [WhatsApp](https://iacr.org/submit/files/slides/2023/rwc/rwc2023/IT_2/slides.pdf) for their end-to-end encrypted backups

## Security

- [Security Analysis of OPAQUE](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/163.pdf)
- [Security Audit of opaque-ke](https://research.nccgroup.com/2021/12/13/public-report-whatsapp-opaque-ke-cryptographic-implementation-review/)

## Benefits compared to password hashing

- The server never learns the password and therefor never can log it (accidentally)

## Tradeoffs compared to password hashing

- Requires JavaScript to run on the client
- One extra roundtrip for registration and login

## Benefits compared to Passkeys

- No need for users to rely on an external authority for key storage. Usually Apple, Google or Microsoft.
- No device/browser/OS lock-in. On Linux for example there is no Passkey support.
- No support for a stable `export_key` on the client. This makes Passkeys unsuitable for encrypted backups or as a foundation for end-to-end encryption apps. Might be possible in the future with the [PRF Extension](https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/#prf-extension)

## Tradeoffs compared to Passkeys

- You still need to remember and store a password. Passwordless authentication is preferable.
- Passkeys have even stronger security guarantees against server compromise since only a public key is stored.

Note: You can also deploy Passkeys and have Opaque as a fallback for users without Passkeys. Best of both worlds.

## Relevant building blocks and inspirations

- 2018: The [OPAQUE](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/163.pdf) paper was published.
- 2018-2023 A group of IETF members worked on the [OPAQUE protocol RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-opaque/).
- 2020: Work on [opaque-ke](https://github.com/facebook/opaque-ke) started.
- 2020: Work on [opaque-wasm](https://github.com/marucjmar/opaque-wasm) started. It allowed us to give explore the protocol in a beta and inspired us to build a full library. We made a comparison table between the two libraries [here](/docs/faq#how-does-it-compare-to-opaque-wasm).
